# 2017 Trading Log

# January

My general view is short interest rates, and I was punished in Jan. Things have got better since.

## March

My portfolio as of 10 Mar is:

* 12% copper via HG futures
* 1% European stocks \(DJ600\)
* -26% long-dated US Treasuries \(ZB\)
* -120% 10-year gilts \(R\)
* 6% gold \(via POG CFD\)
* 2.5% UK commercial real estate via LAND
* 2.4% World ex-US equities via EFA CFD

The single idea is that the green dragon of inflation is not slain but merely at the end of a decades long and thoroughly re-invigorating sleep.

In terms of currency exposure, taking into account all the instruments above, plus FX positions, I have:

* 14% EUR
* 86% USD

The general idea is that the US is still on a recovery track, and will be the first economy to tighten rates, with Europe behind. I have roughly zeroed my exposure to GBP, because it is still far from clear what the future has in store for Brexit. Exposures should be taken with a pinch of sand because, for example, a UK CFD presumably is counted as a GBP exposure, even if it is a gold miner based in Russia.

## March 13

Trying to keep my risk levels down. Now standing at VaR \(4 days, 99.9%, Monte Carlo method\) $251K VaR/$267K loss. Total margin standing at $550K, which is a bit higher than I'd like. 

POG is continuing to drag down the P&L, supposedly on dollar strength. 

EFA and DJ600 are making un-showy progress. EFA is probably the better, more broadly based index, but I have a soft spot for DJ600, because it must be the equity index future with the largest number of underlying securities \(and so, arguably, diversification\).

Brexit uncertainty and government budget chaos have weakened the pound, but European new surrounding the increasing chances that Le Pen and Wilders will get close to power in France and Holland are, presumably, not helping the Euro. I have moved some of the exposure from USD to EUR, since Trump appears to be increasingly unstable.

Another tick up in US rates is looking more and more certain, so my ZB position has been doing OK. This might all go pear shaped if Turkey has a violent revolution, or Kim Jong Un lands a missile on Seoul.









