# Thurs 19th March 2020

## End of day stops

(Just before midnight, but logically today.) HG and CL closed out at reasonable profit (trailing stops). 

## Early morning stops

Z and ESTX50. Some life visible in European bourses. Probably *le rebond de la chatte morte*.

## First Thoughts

UB bouncing around a bit. 
Not clear in which direction. 
JPM put out dire predictions of Depression scale collapse in demand, but mind boggling sums being printed by the Fed are being announced every day. UB seems risk (vs 10 year) but my view is that these programmes are easy to start and hard to stop so in the long run we are (surely) going to see inflation win the tug of war.

DX has no clear direction after sudden bounce. I have heard various commentators making the point that there is a scramble for dollars, but I do not entirely see how this translates into a stronger dollar. The Fed is creating a tsunami of dollars, and has unlimited power to create more so how can the strength continue? Anyway, for the moment, I'm holding on for dear life.

SX7P, Euro Banks Index, has steadied. I am a long term bear, but I can see that the announcements of CBs everywhere will support the banks. My only positions now are through options, with no stops, so I am in for the long(ish) term. Most of my SX7P options are 92 days maturity.

Generally, it may be that we've hit a support level, if not absolute bottom, in equities and I should let stops and the positive gamma of my long options positions naturally scale back my short equity position. Maint. margin now is a scary $0.75M, even after the overnight stops. I must not extend any of my short positions, no matter how tempted I am! 

